hi everyone Cory Barker here of the
National Association of Photoshop
professionals and this time around we're
going to take a look at retouching
landscape images utilizing Photoshop and
our Intuos tablet now here I have a very
well composed landscape shot of this
boat marina courtesy of mr. mat class
Kowski it's a beautiful shot but there
are a few things in this shot we want to
take care of and get rid of that might
distract from things now if i zoom in
here really quick you can see that there
are some power lines going through the
image that are a little less appealing
and kind of take away from the beauty of
the image so we're going to take those
out now the point here is to understand
that when we talked about brushes and
the other videos and utilizing the
pressure sensitive and other tablet
features with the brush tool in addition
to that inside Photoshop any tool that
utilizes the brush engine can also take
advantage of these tablet features for
instance I'm in this case I'm going to
jump over in the toolbar and grab the
Spot Healing Brush tool now again like I
said any tool that uses a brush engine
here in Photoshop can utilize these
pressure sensitive features so if I go
up in the options bar and you'll notice
we've got the various properties here
for the Spot Healing Brush we've got the
blend modes and the different types of
adjustments that can do I'm going to set
this to content-aware as you can see
right here but I'm going to go over here
and click on the brush menu and you'll
see the familiar settings like size
hardness spacing and angle and roundness
but down here at the very bottom where
it says size there is this menu if I
click on this this is where you're going
to find pen pressure so go over here and
just select that and now it's going to
go and utilize pressure sensitivity when
we make this adjustment so let's zoom in
on the image a little bit more now when
it is using pressure sensitive
sensitivity for this feature it is
actually adjusting the size so if I go
over here and start in this power line
let's start in the middle here and just
click and I'm holding pressing very
lightly and you'll see that the radius
of the brush is very small if I release
it cleans it up rather nicely but I'm
just going to drag over here and as I
get closer to the pole I'm going to
press harder and you'll notice the brush
itself gets a little bit harder and I
can go over here and make some subtle
adjustments just to take care of any
little elements
the poll here is a little bit bigger
than the wire so I'm obviously going to
need to press down a little bit harder
but the advantage here is the time that
you're saving you can go over here and
all these settings you would normally
change the brush size with their
keyboard shortcut or something like that
you're saving a tremendous amount of
time just by merely pressing hard or
soft on the tablet so here in this area
this is very very small area here I'm
going to press very lightly and I get
close to the edge of the trees arrows
again I'm going to be pressing very
lightly as well so all the control is
right here on the tablet and with the
user and how hard or how soft you press
down now Malby so I'm not going to go
through the whole thing here let's go
and take this whole wire out here great
feature this Spot Healing Brush and
using content-aware you can actually get
some really really great adjustments in
there and you can see now that wire is
cleanly removed and looks very good all
right so that's using of course the Spot
Healing Brush now let's take a look at
some other enhancements let's go and do
perhaps a level an adjustment level here
go over here and do an adjustment layer
will do levels and perhaps even increase
the contrast here a little bit now if I
wanted this to be more of a vignette
then I would just go over here and
you'll notice on the adjustment layer
that it already creates a layer mask so
let's go and grab the brush tool and I'm
going to get a nice soft edge brush here
let's increase the size considerably and
painting with black because I want to
actually remove that adjustment but I'm
also going to go over here into the
brush options and set the transfer which
is the opacity of the brush both the
opacity and flow to pen pressure as you
can see right here this will allow me to
dis very lightly press on it and lighten
or lesson that contrasting adjustment
here in the center of the image and as
it gets closer to the edge it'll get
considerably darker thus giving us that
rather interesting then yet effect in
there and this also comes in very handy
when sharpening images now oftentimes
when you're sharpening an image you're
going to find yourself sharpening the
whole thing you just do a
global sharpening just by going to
filter and then choosing any of the
sharpening features it does it to the
entire image but what if you wanted to
isolate sharpening to a specific area
well if we go in and create a merged
copy of this image if I go over and hold
down the option key and choose merge
visible and we'll go ahead and do a
sharpening on this layer let's go ahead
and do sharpen and we'll do an unsharp
mask and let's bump up the amount
considerably maybe increase the radius a
little bit now if i zoom in here we
uncheck that you'll notice the
sharpening looks pretty good however
it's sharp in some areas I want and
sharpen some areas I don't want it to be
so here's we're gonna do an option click
on that layer mask icon at the bottom of
the layers panel and that's going to add
a hide all layer mask meaning it's
filled with Hwa fill with black rather
I'm going to set white is my foreground
color and again I'm using that same
brush I did a moment ago it's got the
transfer the opacity jitter and flow are
both set to pen pressure and if I go in
here and just zoom in and look for areas
that I don't necessarily want to be that
sharp perhaps areas really far back in
the background here when we're revealing
so I want to see the sharper areas so I
want to have the sharper area boats I'm
painting with white on the layer mask
there we go and I'm bringing in the
detail only in areas I want it to be and
it's very subtle that's a great thing
about pressure sensitivity is that you
can make these kind of subtle
adjustments without pressure sensitivity
it would just be one or the other you
would have to choose a setting and then
that would be it but with pressure
sensitivity you can vary the intensity
as you paint just by how hard or how
soft you press on the tablet and this
again is very handy when you're
modifying and adjusting landscape images
like this again remember the various
tools that utilize pressure sensitivity
not just the brush but also the various
adjustment tools like Spot Healing Brush
the clone stamp tool all these tools
utilize pressure sensitivity in their
own way and is worth exploring on so
again not just a brush engine or brush
tool but rather go and check out all the
other brush features that utilize
pressure sensitivity they're going to
give you a greater degree of control in
almost any situation